What is the role of this method?
This method nulls the statement,
which is just for the moment a wrapper on the SQL request that we just created.
In this SQL request, we have three question marks in the case of a Person class.
And for each question mark,
we need to provide a value for the corresponding parameter.
So those three parameters are the id, the name, and the age.
And all those three parameters are held by the t object
that we are getting as a parameter.
At runtime, we do not know that this t object is a Person class.
For the moment, it's just of type t.
So we need to discover that using our metamodel and the Reflection API.
So first, let us get the reference on the metamodel, Metamodel.of t .getClass.
Here, we do not know which class we are dealing with at compile time,
but at runtime, this t object will be indeed an instance of a class.
And now, from this metamodel,
we can get the PrimaryKey and the type of this PrimaryKey,
and this is going to be a class, and we are going to call it primaryKeyType.
Now here, we can really have any kind of type for the primaryKeyType.
It could be a long, an integer, It could be a string.
It could be an object.
It could really be anything.
The PreparedStatement only knows how to deal with primitive type,
string, and the different dates that we can use.
Here, in our case, it is longer because we created the Person class in that way.
So I'm just going to write a single test,
if primaryKeyType == long.class, then I am going to do something,
and this something is that I need to set the value of this long,
setLong, to the first parameter of the sql query we created.
And remember,
the first parameter was precisely the primaryKey and then
the value id that we are going to set.
If we want to write a really general EntityManager,
then we will need to add the handling of all the different
types of that primaryKey including int, string,
and the like.
Here, since we are only dealing with the Person class,
we are just going to write the handling of the
primaryKey in the case it is a long.
Now we need to make a decision about how we are going to handle those IDs.
The idea here is that the EntityManager is going to take
care of the generation of the primary keys.
This is a decision that we need to make,
and this is probably a reasonable decision.
If you check Hibernate, and EclipseLink,
and all the JPA implementations,
they all provide a way to generate the primary keys for you.
Now they may have different strategies,
strategies that realize on sequences from the database,
for instance.
Here, we are going to create something really simple.
We are going to create a private AtomicLong field.
Let us call it idGenerator, new AtomicLong, and let us start from 0.
So now this id will be idGenerator.incrementAndGet so that we will
generate a different value every time we persist an object.
Now this method is going to throw the SQLException.
Once again, we are not interested in that exception, so let us throw it away. So now we have endured the first field of our request, which is the primaryKey.